Color scheme generator(Resubmission) (#1487)
hackclub/hackclub: workshops/color_scheme_generator/README.md

---
name: "Color Scheme Generator"
description: "Create color schemes using React Hooks"
author: "@giridhar7632"
---

# Color Scheme Generator

> In this workshop we are going to create a colorful app - 'random-color scheme generator' using React and [React Hooks](https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-intro.html). It looks something like this.

Reviewer: weird phrasing, doesn't sound super human, kinda robotic

![Final Result](https://cloud-16p9skn27.vercel.app/0colorscheme.png)

> Here's the [Live demo](https://color-scheme-generator.giridharhackclu.repl.co/) and [Source Code](https://repl.it/@Giridharhackclu/Color-scheme-generator#src/index.js)

Reviewer: check capitalisation

## Prerequisites

> Before starting this workshop, you should have some knowledge about [React.js](https://reactjs.org) and some [ES6](https://www.w3schools.com/Js/js_es6.asp) features of JavaScript.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before starting this workshop, you should have some knowledge about both [React.js](https://reactjs.org) as well as some of the new [ES6](https://www.w3schools.com/Js/js_es6.asp) features in JavaScript.
```

React Fundamentals
 - [JSX](https://reactjs.org/docs/introducing-jsx.html)
 - [Components and Props](https://reactjs.org/docs/components-and-props.html)
 - [State and LifeCycle](https://reactjs.org/docs/state-and-lifecycle.html)

If you are familiar with these, let’s get going.

## React Hooks API

> [Hooks](https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-intro.html) are introduced in React 16.8 version. Previously, [Class components](https://reactjs.org/docs/components-and-props.html#function-and-class-components) were the only way to define a component that had its own state, and lifecycle methods. [Functional components](https://reactjs.org/docs/components-and-props.html#function-and-class-components) of React, which are light and more flexible, are limited in functionality. Hooks enable us to use state and other React features, like lifecycle methods and event handlers, without writing a Class component.

Reviewer: Weird phrasing throughout, check your tenses.

> There are many benefits of using Functional components. They are :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are many benefits of using Functional components. They are:
```

- Easier to read, test, and debug.
- Have better performance.
- More reusable.

> **Note:** Hooks don’t work inside classes. But you can use them instead of writing classes.

## Setup

> Fork the starter repl [here](https://repl.it/@Giridharhackclu/color-scheme-generator-starter#README.md). The starter repl contains ['create-react-app'](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app) installed and some prewritten styles.

Reviewer: Weirdly phrased towards the end

> Click the run button to start the live-server (it’ll take a moment to get running the first time). After running successfully, kick down the console. If you can see `Hello world!` on the webpage, you are good to go.

Reviewer: Weirdly phrased again, how do I kick down the console?

Let's start creating our React app.

## Step - 1

Navigate to the `src` folder and create a component `Color.js`. This component is to display the colors on the page. Add the following code. 

This is a basic react functional component that renders a `div` element with class `container`. Don't forget to include classes to the elements throughout the project. All the styles are prewritten.

```jsx
import React from 'react'

export default function Color() {
  return (
    <div className="container">
      
    </div>
  )
}
```

Now let's create elements with colors. But what colors? We'll give them random colors as we go. 

> Add a [prop](https://reactjs.org/docs/components-and-props.html#props-are-read-only) `colors`, an `array`, which we will get from other component. Then we will loop through the array with [`map()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/map). 

Reviewer: This kinda assumes I know how to add a prop, which not everyone will know

The final component will be like this :

```jsx
import React from 'react'

export default function Color({ colors = [] }) {       // <----------- prop
  if (!colors.length) return null
  return (
    <div className="container">
      {colors.map((color, i) => (                // <---------- map method
          <div
            key={i}
            className="color"
            style={{ background: color }}
          ><span className="name">{color}</span></div>
      ))}
    </div>
  )
}
```

It gets the `colors` array as a prop from another component and returns an array of `div` elements with a `backgroundColor`. Each element contains the respective `backgroundColor` in form of hex code. If it gets nothing, it renders `null`. Also, a [`key`](https://reactjs.org/docs/lists-and-keys.html#keys) is given to every element for its identity. 

Now we finished writing our `Color.js` component. Don't worry, nothing will be on the webpage without rendering the component. 

> Open the `App.js` component. For getting a random color we are using a package [randomcolor](https://randomcolor.lllllllllllllllll.com/), which is a small library of some random colors. It is already installed in the starter template. Let's import `Color.js` and `randomColor` into our `App.js` component. Add these lines of code to the `App` component.

Reviewer: Check the phrasing in the middle

```

Every time you click the button, `count` changes. As the `count` changes, the `useEffect()` runs and `getColor()` is executed, the `colors` array changes. 

![Visualisation](https://cloud-endlseu6b.vercel.app/0resized.png)

You cannot see any colors on the screen. Let's now render the `Color.js` component inside for the `App.js` component and pass the `colors` array as props.

```jsx
import React, { useState, useEffect } from 'react'
import Color from './Color'
import randomColor from 'randomcolor'

export default function App() {
  const [count, setCount] = useState(0)
  const [colors, setColors] = useState([])

  const change = () => {
      setCount(prevCount => prevCount + 1)
    }

  const getColor = () => {
    const baseColor = randomColor().slice(1);
    fetch(`https://www.thecolorapi.com/scheme?hex=${baseColor}&mode=quad&count=5`)
    .then(data => data.json())
    .then(data => {
      setColors(data.colors.map(color => color.hex.value))
    })
  }

  useEffect(getColor, [count])
  
  return (
    <div>
        <Color
          colors={colors}
        />
        <button className="btn" onClick={change}>Change!</button>
    </div>
  )
}
```

> That's it!! Now you can see random color-schemes on the webpage. You can change the colors, clicking the button. The `useState()` and `useEffect` are the most used hooks in react. Check the final code [here](https://color-scheme-generator.giridharhackclu.repl.co/).

Reviewer: Weird phrasing at the end

![Final Project](https://cloud-hptr7s5bf.vercel.app/0color-schemer.gif)

> There are other additional hooks and are rarely used. You can check them here.

Reviewer: " You can check them here."

Make use of your creativity, use hooks in your projects, and share it with me on slack as [@Giridhar](https://hackclub.slack.com/team/U013E6KE9UJ).

## Inspiration

- Example-1: [Demo](https://Monochrome-color-schemes.giridharhackclu.repl.co/). [Source code](https://repl.it/@Giridharhackclu/Monochrome-color-schemes#src/App.js).<br>
Monochrome Color Schemes - It generates monochrome color-schemes. Same as the project in this workshop, but with different types of schemes.

- Example-2: [Demo](https://custom-color-schemer.giridharhackclu.repl.co/). [Source code](https://repl.it/@Giridharhackclu/Custom-color-schemer#src/App.js).<br>
Analogic Color Schemes -   It generates Analogic-complement color-schemes. Same as the project in this workshop, but with a different type of scheme.

- Example-3: [Demo](https://random-color-scheme.giridharhackclu.repl.co). [Source code](https://repl.it/@Giridharhackclu/desired-color-scheme#src/App.js).<br>
In this example, the [randomcolor](https://randomcolor.lllllllllllllllll.com/) package is not used. Instead created a custom function to generate random colors.

> Use the power of React Hooks in your next React project. Hope you enjoy this workshop! :v:

Reviewer: fyi the emoji won't render on the site

## Setup

> Fork the starter repl [here](https://repl.it/@Giridharhackclu/color-scheme-generator-starter#README.md). The starter repl contains ['create-react-app'](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app) installed. There are some basic styles applied, you will get cleared along the flow.

Reviewer: Phrasing issue is still here: "you will get cleared along the flow"

Author: Sorry
